# bigBERD: An R package to generate reproducible analysis 

bigBERD is an R package which automatically generates code for general analysis plans in a piecewise and robust manner. Nearly all standard analysis plans contain the same basic steps: visualization, summarization of variables, univariate testing, and some type of regression analysis. Much time is spent copying, modifying, or developing new code to analyze methodologically similar problems.  My package aims to circumvent this issue by generating customized code for any dataset at hand. bigBERD operates in a stepwise manner. First, the user generates a Report directory tree to facilitate good data handling practices. Then the package reads the clean dataset and creates a short summary file, which contains useful information for the user and forms the basis of automated decision making. After these prerequisites are generated, the user can call one of four document generating functions: exploratory analysis, univariate analysis, multiple regression analysis, or time-to-event analysis. Each of these will generate a .Rmd document containing code customized to the task and dataset at hand. All code can be run immediately after generation or modified as the user sees fit.  The exploratory document contains code for univariate plots of each variable, bivariate plots, and a summary table. The univariate analysis function writes code to perform univariate analysis on all variables, stratified by a user-defined condition of interest. It also generates code for simple linear/logistic/multinomial/ordinal regression on an outcome of interest, with accompanying tables and plots. The multiple regression analysis function generates code to build a main effects model and a stepwise AIC reduced model, with summary tables and plots. The time-to-event analysis function generates KM plots with log-rank tests for categorical variables and a main-effects cox-proportional hazard model, with summary table.

